---
layout: archive
title: "Selected Working Papers"
permalink: /working_papers/
author_profile: true
---

<b>Angel M. Villegas-Cruz</b>. 2022. [“The effect of economic ties on digital diplomacy: A sentiment analysis of the Twitter accounts of Chinese diplomatic mission.”](https://github.com/AngelVillegasCruz/AngelVillegasCruz.github.io/raw/master/files/Maabstract.pdf)

<b>Abstract</b>: I examine how economic ties between host and guest countries affect the emotional valence in the social media content published by digital diplomats (DD). Strong economic ties will lead DD to adopt a positive tone because strong economic ties raise the potential costs of verbal aggressiveness online. A positive emotional valence on social media also serves to cultivate good public perceptions of the guest and its economic activities. To evaluate these claims, I analyze 53,601 original tweets published by 88 Chinese diplomatic Twitter accounts from 2014 to 2020. I find economic ties have a strong positive effect on the tone adopted by DD. As the host’s trade dependence with China increases, Chinese diplomatic missions are more likely to adopt a positive tone on Twitter, especially when talking about politics and business. This research contributes to the study of how countries use social media to conduct diplomacy.

Boliang Zhu, Aubrey Waddick, Yilang Feng, and <b>Angel M. Villegas-Cruz</b>. 2022. [“Firms Caught in Crossfire: International Stakes and Domestic Politics in Corporate Positioning on De-Globalization.”](https://s18798.pcdn.co/gripe/wp-content/uploads/sites/18249/2021/07/TradeWar_072021.pdf)

<b>Abstract</b>: There has been a rise of protectionism and a move toward de-globalization across the globe. It is puzzling why businesses have not been more vocal opponents of protectionist policies. We examine U.S. firms’ public position taking in the U.S.-China trade war. After collecting a comprehensive dataset of firms’ public positions on the trade war, we show only 1.73 percent of large and very large U.S. firms have openly voiced opposition. One the one hand, we find larger and more productive firms, multinationals, and those more integrated in global supply chains are significantly more likely to openly oppose the imposition of tariffs. On the other hand, firms located in Republican districts are significantly less likely to do so. Our study is among the first to document firms’ positioning in a high-profile trade war. We demonstrate a critical role of domestic politics in silencing firms’ public opposition, which has important implications for globalization.

<b>Angel M. Villegas-Cruz</b>. 2022. [“Who is writing and what are they writing about? Text analysis and publication patterns in <i>The Journal of Asian Studies</i>, 2000-2020.”](https://github.com/AngelVillegasCruz/AngelVillegasCruz.github.io/raw/master/files/Figures_CAS/Text_analysis_and_JAS_VIllegas_Cruz.pdf)

<b>Abstract</b>: This research examines publication patterns in Asian studies by using The Journal of Asian Studies from 2000 to 2020 as a case study. Employing computational text analysis, I collect and analyze data about JAS authors and research articles. The findings reveal interesting patterns, in particular about authors’ gender, academic rank, affiliation, discipline, and geographic area of study. The results show an imbalance in publication rates for men and women in the JAS. The number of male authors is 414 (60%), while the number of female authors is 276 (40%). We also see a significant gender imbalance for female authors in all tenured and tenure-track positions. Furthermore, the analysis shows that historians and China scholars make up the bulk of JAS authors. Historians represent 42% of published authors (288 authors). Mainland China is the most studied geographical area, accounting for 199 (29%) of articles. JAS publication patterns in the 21st century have not been written about elsewhere. This essay is a first step in understanding gendered patterns of publications in Asian studies. It can help Asianists prioritize publishing articles about under-represented authors, disciplines, and geographic areas in the field.
